# Reflection Questions
## Q1 — Middleware
In Express, middleware consists of the functions that run in between receiving requests and sending a response back. They can serve several purposes, such as in our case handling CORS requirements, handling JSON correctly, and ensuring that a user is correctly authorized to make the request. The order middleware is registered matters because the middleware functions will run in this order when a request happens. If we registered the middleware after we include the route definitions, then they simply wouldn't run when that route is called. Global middleware applies to every request that takes place. For example, `app.use(express.json())` makes sure that JSON is correctly parsed and handled for each Express route we have. Route-level middleware applies specifically to the route it is passed as an argument to. For example, we pass `verifyToken` like this: `app.post('/api/scores', verifyToken, async (req, res)`. This calls `verifyToken` just on that route to make sure a user is authorized and can POST a new score.

## Q2 - Password Security
Passwords should never be stored in plain text, because if there is any sort of data leak where the user database is exposed, then these passwords are completely open for people to see. If a user uses the same password for multiple sites, now that password is completely exposed. By hashing it, it is obscured so that it's not just visible in the database. `bcrypt.hash(password, 10)` will salt the password (adding random data to further obscure it) and then run a hashing algorithm on the password to return a hash. The value 10 controls the number of salting rounds that happens to obscure the password, which makes it harder for a theoretical attacker to brute force a password from a hash. `bcrypt.compare()` does not have to reverse the hash and get the original password, which would not be possible anyways since hashing is a one-way process. Instead, it compares the password that the user enters in with the hash stored in the database using a hashing algorithm. If the hashes match up, that means the user entered the correct password.

## Q3 - JWT Flow
First, the client sends `POST /api/auth/register` with a JSON body including an email and password. If valid, the server will hash the password, create a new user with those credentials, and add that to the database. It will send back a JSON response including a message, a user ID, and an email back.

Then, the client can login using `POST /api/auth/login` with a JSON body including email and password. The server will check these credentials against the database. If the server finds a matching user in the database, it will create a new JWT token, which has the user ID, email, JWT secret, and expiration time embedded within it. It will then send back a JSON response including the token, the user's ID, and the user's email. The client will store this token in localStorage so that we can stay logged in. The server does not need to look up the database to verify a token on each request because our `verifyToken` middleware will make sure that the token matches our local `JWT_SECRET` in `.env` every time there's a request. There's no need to consult the database every time.

When it's time for a user to submit a score, the client will check if we are logged in and display a "submit score" button if we are. When that is pressed, we call `POST /api/scores` with a JSON body including the score and total questions. The server will create a new `Score` object with this info and persist it in the database. It will then send back this `Score` object as the response to the client.

## Q4 - In-Memory vs Database
One problem with the in-memory approach is that if you stop the deployment at any point and restart, you use all the scores that were stored in memory; there is no persistence of game scores. The database solves this by acting as a centralized, persistent location that keeps the scores around even when the web app stops running. Another problem is consistency: if we ever needed multiple instances of the server, they would all have different score arrays with the in-memory approach; the database gives that consistent central storage we need. If I redeployed the server, the MongoDB data would be exactly the same as before; whereas with the in-memory array, you start from zero on restart.

## Q5 - Route Design Decision
Having `GET /api/scores` be public makes sense because you want anybody to be able to access the leaderboard. There's no need to authenticate for just viewing the public leaderboard page. `POST /api/scores` must be protected because we only want people to submit scores if they are logged in; otherwise, you could submit endless scores without any sort of authorization for who you are. If `GET /api/scores` also required authentication, we wouldn't be able to view leaderboards when logged out.  